There exist three main types of licenses for Unix-based versions - two for the 
daemon and one for the scanner.

The licenses can be purchased for 6, 12 and 24 months. Having purchased the 
license, during the whole license term, you have the right to update from the 
Dr.Web(R) Global Updating system servers and to receive a standard technical
support of Doctor Web Ltd.  and its partners.


        1. Dr.Web(R) - command line scanners. (http://buy.drweb.com/home/)

This license allows operation with all types of Dr.Web(R) antivirus scanners, 
with the command line interface for Windows, MS DOS, Linux, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, 
Solaris(i86).


        2. For corporate mail protection (http://buy.drweb.com/business/)

This is a license for Dr.Web daemon which enables scanning  of mail
messages passed to a daemon by filters from Sendmail, Postfix, QMail,
Communigate Pro, ZMailer, MIO Mail Server, Exim, Courier-MTA mail
servers.  This  license is not for integration of the daemon with file
and proxy servers. The license is not "per server".

For "mail servers" there are four types of licenses:

    2.1 Unlimited license

This license allows  to use the daemon for scanning messages of any
number of users of an unlimited volume (the volume is limited by your
hardware capacity only).

    2.2 Traffic license

This license allows  to use the daemon for scanning messages of any
number of users but of a limited number of messages. The messages
containing viruses, or those that can not be scanned due to their
internal errors, are not taken into account.

When purchasing you  chose the license with a daily limitation  of the
number of messages to be scanned and  you have to transform this
restriction into hourly. There are two ways of transformation:
- allot the limit evenly by  hours (default setting) (see the
description of the TrafficEqualPerHour parameter)
- set your own schedule of the limit spending.  The total of the scanned
messages in the schedule should not exceed the daily limit (see the
description of the TrafficEqualPerHour and TrafficPerHour parameters).

When the limit for the given hour is exhausted the  daemon will suspend
scanning messages and the relevant return code will be sent  to the mail
filter. Administrator can adjust the filter (see the description of the
LicenseLimit parameter) so that either to admit, or reject such messages,
in CommuniGate Pro mail filter there exists a possibility to postpone
the delivering of a message for some time for another scanning.

    2.3 License for 15 or 30 mail addresses

This license allows to use the daemon for scanning messages  (incoming
and out-going) of 15 (or 30) mail addresses and an unlimited quantity of
messages per day.  All protected mail addresses are to be explicitly
specified in a special file (see the description of the
MailAddressesList parameters). The file  is rather simple: one
line per one address. The first 15 or 30 lines are read only (regardless
whether the line is empty or not), the rest is ignored. 

To determine whether  a particular message should be scanned or not, the
daemon uses the addresses from the SMTP-envelope (see RFC 2821). To make
the daemon scan a message one of the addresses from the SMTP-envelope
must be in full compliance with one of the "protected" addresses
(case-insensitive comparison is applied). That is why if for the address
foo@bar.example.com the messages can be sent with the address foo,
foo@bar.example.com or foo@example.com, all three of them should be
listed in the correspondent file.

If a message is not identified  as "for scanning", the daemon will not
scan it and the relevant return code will be sent to a filter.
Administrator can adjust the filter (see the description of the
LicenseLimit parameter) so that either to admit, or reject such messages.

     2.4 license for 50 and more mail addresses 

This license allows to use the  daemon for scanning messages (incoming
and out-going) conforming to the quantity of mail addresses specified in
the license and an unlimited quantity of messages. Explicit
specification of addresses is not required so far. Still, the company
reserves the right to control in future the conformity of the quantity
of the scanned addresses with the quantity specified in the license.


        3. For file servers protection (http://buy.drweb.com/business/)

This is the license for the Dr.Web  daemon which allows to use the
daemon for scanning of shared resources in the Samba file servers
(versions 2.2.2 and higher) and to scan http-traffic on ICAP (supported
at present by popular Squid proxy server). This license does not allow
scanning of messages passed to the daemon from mail filters. A server is
subject to licensing.
